in this video I'd like to talk about a
new large scale machine learning setting
called the online learning setting the
online learning setting allows us to
model problems where we have a
continuous flood or continuous stream of
data coming in and we would like an
algorithm to learn from that today many
of the largest websites or many of the
largest website companies use different
versions of online learning algorithms
to learn from the flood of users that
keep on coming to back to the web site
specifically if you have a continuous
stream of data generated by a continuous
stream of users coming to your website
what you can do is sometimes use an
online learning algorithm to learn user
preferences from the stream of data and
use that to optimize some of the
decisions on your website suppose you
run a shipping service so you know users
come and ask you to help ship their
packages from location a to location B
and suppose you've run a website where
users repeat to become and they tell you
where they want to send the package from
and where they want to send it to so the
origin and destination and your website
offers to ship the package for some
asking pricing as well share your
package for $50 I'll ship it with $20
and based on the price that you office
in the users the users sometimes choose
to use a shipping service that's a
positive example and sometimes they go
away and they do not choose to purchase
your shipping service so let's say that
we want a learning algorithm to help us
to optimize one of the asking price that
we want to offer to our users and
specifically let's say we come up with
some set of features they capture
properties are the users so we know
anything about the demographics they
capture and you know the origin and
destination of the package where they
want to ship the package and what is the
price that we offer to them for shipping
the package and what we want to do is
learn what is the probability that they
will elect to ship the package you using
our shipping service given these
features
and again just as a reminder these
features X also captures the price that
were asking for and so if we could
estimate the chance that they'll agree
to I use our service for any given price
then we can you know try to pick a price
so that they have a pretty high
probability of choosing our website
while simultaneously hopefully offering
us a fair return offering us a fair
profit for shipping their package so we
can learn this probably of y equals 1
given any price and given the other
features we can really use this to
choose appropriate prices as new users
come to us so in order to model the
probability of y equals 1 what we can do
is use logistic regression or a new a
network or some other album like that
for there starts with logistic
regression now if you have a website
that just runs continuously here's what
an online learning outlet will do I'm
gonna repeat forever this just means
that our website is going to you know
keep on staying up and what happens on
the website is occasionally a user will
come and for the user that comes we'll
get some XY pair right corresponding to
a customer or to a user on the website
so the features X are you know the
origin and destination specified by this
user and the price that we happen to
offer to them this time rel and Y is
either 1 or 0 depending on whether or
not they chose to use our shipping
service now once we get this XY pair
what an online learning algorithm does
is then update the parameters theta
using just this example X comma Y and in
particular we will update my parameters
theta as theta J gets updated as theta J
minus the learning rate alpha times my
usual Radian descent rule for logistic
regression so we do this for J equals 0
up to n and that's my close curly brace
so for other learning algorithms instead
of writing XY right I was writing things
that X I comma Y I but in this online
learning setting we're actually
discarding the notion of there being a
fixed training set instead we have an
algorithm and what happens as we get an
example and then we learn using that
example like so and then we throw that
example away we discount that example
and we never use it again and so that's
why we just look at one example at a
time
and we learn from that example we
discard it which is why you know we're
also doing away with this notion of
there being this sort of fixed training
set index by eye and if you really want
run a major website what you really have
a continuous stream of users coming then
this sort of online learning algorithm
is actually a pretty reasonable
algorithm because of data is essentially
free if you have so much data that data
is essentially unlimited then there's
really maybe no need to look at a
training example more than once of
course if you had only a small number of
users then rather than using an online
learning algorithm itthis you might be
better off saving away all your data and
the fixed training set and then running
some algorithm over that training set
but if you really have a continuous
stream of data then an online learning
algorithm can be very effective I should
mention also that one interesting effect
of this sort of online learning
algorithm is that it can adapt to
changing user preferences and in
particular if over time because of
changes in the economy maybe users start
to become more price sensitive and
willing to pay you less willing to pay
high prices or do come less price
sensitive and they're willing to pay
higher prices or if different things
become more important to users if you
started new types of users coming to
your website this sort of online
learning algorithm can also adapt to
changing user preferences and kind of
keep track of what your changing
population of users may be willing to
pay
and it does that because if your pool
have uses changes then these updates to
your parameters data will just slowly
adapt your parameters to whatever your
latest pool of users move what here's
another example of the sort of
application to which you might apply
online learning this is an application
in product search in which we want to
apply learning algorithm to learn to
give good search listings to a user
let's say you run an online store that
sells phones themselves mobile phones
will come cells cell phones and you have
a user interface where a user can come
to your website and type in the query
like your Android phone 1080p camera so
1080p is a type of a specification for a
video camera that you might have enough
in the phone and the cell phone a mobile
phone suppose suppose we have a hundred
phones in our sport and because of the
way our website is laid out when a user
types in the query for the search query
we would like to find a choice of 10
different phones to show or to offer to
the user what we'd like to do is have a
learning algorithm help us to figure out
what are the 10 phones out of the 100 we
should return to a user in response to a
user search query you like the 1 year
here's how we can go about the problem
for each phone and given a specific user
query we can construct a feature vector
X so the feature vector X might capture
different properties of the phone it
might capture things like how similar
they use the search queries to the phone
so we capture things like how many words
and they use a search query match the
name of the phone how many words they
use the search query match the
description of the phone and so on so
the features X capture properties in the
film and it captures things about how
similar or how well the phone matches
the user query along different
dimensions what we'd like to do is
estimate the probability that the user
will click on the link for a specific
phone because we want to show the user
of phones that they're likely to want to
buy want to show the user phones that
they have a high probability of clicking
on in the web browser so I'm going to
define y equals 1 if a user clicks on a
link for a phone and y equals 0 other
and what I would like to do is learn the
probability that user will click on a
specific phone given you know the
features X which capture properties the
phone and how well the query matches the
phone to give this problem a name in the
language of people they run websites
like this this the problem of learning
this is actually called the problem of
learning the predicted click-through
rates or predicted CTR just means
learning the probability that the user
will click on a specific link that you
offer them so CPR is an abbreviation for
click-through rate and if you can
estimate the predicted click-through
rate for any particular phone what we
can do is use this to show the user the
10 phones that the most likely to click
on because although the hundred phones
we can compute this for each of the
hundred phones and just select the 10
phones that you know the users most
likely to click on and this would be a
pretty reasonable way to decide what 10
results are showed in the user just be
clear and suppose that every time a user
does a search we return 10 results what
that will do is it will actually give us
10 XY pairs so this actually gives us 10
training examples every time you user
that comes that website because because
for the 10 phones that we chose to show
the user for each of those 10 phones we
get a feature vector X and for each of
those 10 films we show the user we will
also get a value from Y we will also
observe the value of Y depending on
whether or not they clicked on that URL
and so one way to run the website like
this would be to continuously show the
user you know your 10 best guesses for
what are the phones they might like and
so each time we'd use it comes you would
get 10 examples 10 XY pairs and then use
an online learning algorithm to update
the parameters using essentially 10
steps of gradient descent on these 10
examples and then you can throw the data
away and if you really have a continuous
stream of users coming to your website
this would be a pretty reasonable way to
learn parameters for your algorithms so
as to show the 10 phones to users that
are maybe most promising under their
most like
so this is a product search problem we
are learning to rank phones are learning
to search for Phil's example so quickly
mention a few others one is if you have
a website you're trying to decide you
know what special offers to show the
user it is very similar to phones or if
you have a website and you show
different users different news articles
so if you're a news aggregator website
then you can again use a similar system
to select to show to the user you know
what are the news articles that they are
most likely to be interested in what are
the news articles that the most likely
click on closely related to special
offers will be positive recommendations
and in fact if you have a collaborative
filtering system you can even imagine
the collaborative filtering system
giving you additional features to feed
into a logistic regression classifier to
try to predict the click-through rates
for different products that you might
recommend to a user of course I should
say that any of these problems could
also have been formulated as a standard
machine learning problem where you have
a fixed training set maybe you can run
your website for a few days and then
save away a training set a fixed
training set and run and learning opera
on that but these are the actual source
of problems where you do see large
companies get so much data that there's
really maybe no need to save away a
fixed training set but instead you can
use a but online learning algorithm so
just learn continuously from the data
that users you are generating on your
website
so that was the online learning setting
and as we saw the algorithm that we
applied to this is really very similar
to the stochastic gradient descent
algorithm only instead of scanning
through a fixed training set we're
instead getting one example from the
users learning from that example in
discarding it and moving on and if you
have a continuous stream of data for
some application this sort of algorithm
may be well worth considering for your
application and of course one of the
advantage of online learning is also
that if you have a changing pool of
users or if the things are trying to
predict are slowly changing user taste
slowly changing the online learning
algorithm can slowly adapt your learned
hypothesis to whatever the latest sets
of user behaviors are like as well